hi this is Pam dinner here thank you so
much for tuning in to b2b marketing and
more with me this is a place I want to
help you to become better b2b marketer I
share templates know how to help you
think strategically do your job better
hopefully by doing that you can climb
the corporate ladder faster for today I
want to talk about the differences
between drip and the nurture campaigns
can you use these two terms
interchangeably and the importance of
creating the workflow before I do that
is a quick short story I want to share
with you I was hired to do a workshop by
a new client of mine and the whole
marketing organization our tasks to
support their Salesforce starting in
2020 so they hire me to do a workshop is
an educational workshop to share with
them how they can work with their sales
team so we talked about content mapping
between sales and marketing content we
talked about how to create nurturing
campaigns if the leads are rejected by
sales and why done nurturing campaigns
would look like based on the causes of
rejection and you know the whole
workshop was supposed to be about
education is educational workshop but in
the middle of it we turn into a working
session so I pretty much had to
improvise and work with them to actually
create kind of like a workflow we are
working through with some of the key
workflow for nurturing campaigns
seriously that for the prospects that
are rejected by the sales team and then
in the end of the workshop Sarah was
like this is great but hey you know why
Pam I know that we've been using drip
and nurturing these two terms can you
tell me if there are any differences
between these two words
on top of it do we need to tell the
definition to the sales team and educate
them so they can use the terms correctly
you know that's actually a great
question many people use drip and
nurtured interchangeably and I told
Sarah
so you know you don't really need to
educate your sales team
whatever they use you kind of know what
they mean anyway however within the
marketing team is important actually to
know the difference
but within a marketing organization it's
probably good to know the differences
between the two teams and this is what I
share with Sarah Ford read specifically
is really about presenting buyers
information so they can get familiar
with your brands in your product so it's
really more focused on the top of the
funnel the drip campaign tend to be a
whole lot more general and targeted for
broader audience and the example I share
with Sarah was that's pick up a guy and
his name is Joe and he comes to say my
pet fool ecommerce site and signed a
full newsletter and because he signed up
on newsletter within like 20 minutes i
immediately send out a welcome email
basically welcome him to come to my
website and sign up for newsletter and
here is a 25% coupon you can buy
anything for 25% then 5 to 7 days later
i send out the email and i say hey don't
forget my e-commerce site come back
anytime by the way here are some of the
tips and tricks that can use to find
relevant information about pet food so
that's a second email and then several
days later than that i sent him an
invitation an invitation to actually
join my exclusive facebook community
right that's actually a very typical
drip campaigns it's very general and it
target for the first-time subscriber or
the first timer nurturing on the other
hand is really aims at the existing
customers or prospects that's already
inside of the purchasing cycle what they
are already fairly familiar with your
products so it's more kind of like on
the middle of the purchase funnel and
also the bottom of it
so that's use joe as an example again
now he joined the Facebook community and
you noticed that he posted two or three
photos of his two cats now you know he
has two cats of
Tibor breed and with that kind of
information you can start doing
nurturing right you want to send out
email that's very much targeted and
personalize it to actually tell him what
kind of pet food that he probably should
buy for that specific breed or what kind
of pet hair that he needs to know to
take care of the cats of that kind of
breed so is more personalized more
targeted more segmented and it's about
nurturing the person so he can come back
to your website either buy more products
or keep the products and your brains top
of their mind so that's the difference
between the drip and the nurturing
campaigns and I toaster out many people
use these two terms interchangeably as
long as you know what they do and that's
what matters but the key thing is it's
not about knowing the differences
between the two terms the most important
thing is you actually spend time and
effort to get to know your audiences
your customers understand how they
interact with you so when you create a
workflow or the nurturing campaigns that
you actually select the content and pick
the offering that's most relevant to
them and the stages of their purchase
journey that's actually hard to do it
right to be honest with you I'm still
working and tweaking my own drip and
nurturing campaigns even as of today I
love working with my clients doing that
it's so much fun well is struggling and
frustrating at the same time because you
have to sip through a lot of data and
there's a lot of debates going back and
forth with your clients on top of it you
know you have to go through a certain
kind of content audit to understand what
kind of a content that you can actually
use for that kind of a marketing
automation or nurturing campaigns
communications it's a lot of work but
also if you do it right it's incredibly
rewarding so that's it for today the
topic that is about the differences
between the drip and the nurturing
campaigns I hope you find the content
useful if you like it
described below and share your comments
and if you have any specific questions
you can reach out to me anytime Pam at
Pam didn't love to hear from you alright
so that's it for today I will see you
next week